Auth Layer Server using KeyCloak (#42)
hashgraph/hedera-the-graph: charts/auth-layer-server/README.md

# HederaTheGraph (HTG) Authentication Layer Server

The Authentication Layer Server is a KeyCloak server that provides authentication and authorization services for the HederaTheGraph (HTG). It is based on the [KeyCloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) open source identity and access management solution. 
With the following configurations:
- Realm preconfigured with the HTG (htg-auth-layer) client
- Groups and Roles preconfigured for the HTG client
- Custom claim mappers for the HTG client

> - Token expiration time set to 10 hours (plenty of time for a one day work session)

Reviewer: nit: if there are links to docs explaining these settings we're overriding/modifying that would be useful here.

Author: yes there is an official documentation for keycloak that we can link here.

Author: ✅  Done

- Disabled refresh tokens
- Other custom configurations
    - User registration is disabled
    - Forgot password is enabled
    - Email as username is enabled
    - Login with email is enabled

## Prerequisites

> - Minikube or a Kubernetes cluster

Author: ✅ Done

### Usage

#### Create a new user

Once you have your KeyCloak server running, you can create a new user by following these steps:

1. Login to the KeyCloak admin console.
2. Select the `HederaTheGraph` realm from the dropdown menu (if not selected already).
3. Then navigate to `Users` and click on the `Add user` button.
4. Fill in the user details and click on the `Save` button.
5. After saving the user, navigate to the `Credentials` tab and set a password for the user (prefferably a temporary one, that forces the user to update it at next login).
6. Assign Roles or Grpups to the user.
7. Set `subgraph_access` attribute to the user, this will give the user access to these subgraphs. This is done by click the `Attributes` tab and adding a new attribute with the name `subgraph_access` and the value being the subgraph id. The value can be a CSV string with many subgraph names, ie: `subgraph1,subgraph2,subgraph3`.

#### Groups and Roles

**a. Subgraph Admin:**, has access to all the subgraphs admin endpoints. (`subgraph_create`, `subgraph_remove`, `subgraph_deploy`,`subgraph_pause` and `subgraph_resume`)

> **b. Subgraph Deployer:**, has access to: `subgraph_pause`, 'subgraph_resume' and 'subgraph_deploy' endpoints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**b. Subgraph Deployer:**, has access to: `subgraph_pause`, `subgraph_resume` and `subgraph_deploy` endpoints.
```

Author: ✅ Done

With the following configurations:
- Realm preconfigured with the HTG (htg-auth-layer) client
- Groups and Roles preconfigured for the HTG client
- Custom claim mappers for the HTG client
- Token expiration time set to 10 hours (plenty of time for a one day work session)
- Disabled refresh tokens
- Other custom configurations
    - User registration is disabled
    - Forgot password is enabled
    - Email as username is enabled
    - Login with email is enabled

**For more information about KeyCloak Configuration, please visit the [KeyCloak Documentation](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/index.html)**

## Prerequisites
- Minikube or a Kubernetes cluster [(more here)](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)
- Helm 3 [(install instructions here)](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- kubectl [(install instructions here)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

## Installation

To install the Authentication Layer Server, run the following commands:

> - Install the chart, using the custom values file provided in the `values.yaml` file

Reviewer: nit: you also need to run `helm dependency build` if this is the first time using the chart (and presumably again if dependencies change?).

Author: ✅  done

```bash
helm install htg-auth-server .
```

### Helm Chart Overrides

#### Admin Password

Define a custom password, use `auth.adminPassword` like this: 
```bash

> helm install htg-auth-server . --set auth.adminPassword=yourpassword

Reviewer: This did not work for me - I installed via this command: `helm install htg-auth-server . --set auth.adminPassword=secret`.

I was able to successfully retrieve the admin password from the secret, so maybe it's just not setting the correct variable?

Author: Fixed, it was actually `keycloak.auth.adminPassword=yourpassword`

✅

```yaml
global:
    auth:
        clientSecret: yourclientsecret
```

#### Use External DB (PostgreSQL)
By default as part of the helm chart, it will deploy a PostgreSQL database. If you want to use an external database, you can use the following configuration:

```yaml
keycloak:
    postgresql:
        enabled: false
    externalDatabase:
        host: myexternalhost    
        user: myuser
        password: mypassword
        database: mydatabase
        port: 5432
```

*After installation please give some time (a few minutes) for the KeyCloak server to start and be ready to use.*

*For a whole list of configurable parameters see the oficial documentation of the [KeyCloak Helm Chart from Bitnami](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/bitnami/keycloak/12.1.3)*

### Configuration

#### Port Forwarding
You will need to port-forward the KeyCloak service to access the admin console. Run the following command to port-forward the service:
```bash
kubectl port-forward service/htg-auth-server-keycloak 8080:80
```
#### Login to the Admin Console

> Access console on the following URK: `http://localhost:8080/admin/master/console/#/HederaTheGraph`

Reviewer: nit: this might actually be better as a link. When following the readme I ended up just copying and pasting this URL.

Author: ✅  done

**c. Subgraph Operator:**, has access to: `subgraph_pause` and 'subgraph_resume' endpoints.

#### Get a Token from the Authentication Layer Server

If using port-forwarding, you can get a token from the Authentication Layer Server by running the following command, you will need the following information:
- `username` or `email` of the user
- `user-password` of the user
- `client-secret` of the `htg-auth-layer` client

```bash
curl --location 'http://localhost:8080/realms/HederaTheGraph/protocol/openid-connect/token' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
--data-urlencode 'grant_type=password' \
--data-urlencode 'username=<username or email>' \
--data-urlencode 'password=<user-password>' \
--data-urlencode 'client_id=htg-auth-layer' \
--data-urlencode 'client_secret=<client-secret>'
```

*However is recommended to expose the service using a FQDN since the token that is created using the host `localhost` is only valid for the `localhost` host when calling the instrospection endpoint. So port-forwarding is only recommended for testing purposes.*

#### Verify a Token

> To verify a token, you can call the introspection endpoint of the Authentication Layer Server. The introspection endpoint is available at the following URL: `http://localhost:8080/auth/realms/HederaTheGraph/protocol/openid-connect/token/introspect`

Reviewer: nit: this also would probably be better as a link

Author: This is not mean to be called by a browser, so the link does not makes too much sense.
